# data

This sub-directory will modified versions of the data from the sub-directory `data-raw`. This data will be tracked as it depends on script files to generate them. Below are descriptions of data received along with descriptions of the variables within each data set.

`carrier_ts.rds` and `control_ts.rds` 

are lists that contain `ts` objects produced by `stats::ts` for various diseases. These data were generated by the `script/clean_data.R` script file. `carrier_ts.rds` is a list for CF carries while `control_ts.rds` is a listed for controls. The data ranges from 2008 through 2019 and each list contains 14 diseases series taken from `data-raw/cftr_incidence_series.RData`. Any disease for a given year that more than 25% of its records (or 3 months) indicating an incidence of zero or did not have data for both carrier statuses were removed. The threshold of 25% (or 3 months) was used so that an entire calendar season (fall, winter, spring, or summer) would not go without a single incidence occurring. Additionally, the date range choosen was selected because it provided enough fully years of complete data to examine the seasonal and global trends of the diseases.

`imputed_carrier_ts.rds` and `imputed_control_ts.rds`

are lists that contain `ts` objects produced by `stats::ts` for various diseases. These data were generated in the same manner as `carrier_ts.rds` and `control_ts.rds`; however, incidence rates of zero were replaced by the minimum non-zero incidence recorded for a given year and carrier status for that disease. The script file that generated these data was `script/impute_data.R`.